Time, crystals. Yeah. Um, what are they? These things are,
it's a very beautiful idea when we start to, um, treat space and time
as, um, similar frameworks. Yes. Right.
Physical phenomenon. Right. That's what motivated it. What.
Are first of all? What are crystals? Yeah. And what time crystals. Okay. So.
Crystals are orderly arrangements of, uh,
atoms in space and, uh, many materials,
if you cool them down gently, uh,
will form crystals. And so we say that that's, uh, a,
a, a state of matter that forms spontaneously and, uh,
an important feature of that state of matter is that the end
result, the crystal, uh,
has less symmetry than the equations that give
rise to the crystal. So the equations,
the basic equations of physics, uh,
are the same if you, uh, move a little bit,
so you can move the homogeneous,
but crystals aren't atoms are in particular place. So they have less symmetry.
Uh, and time crystals are the same thing in time.
<laugh> that basically you, you, but of course it's not,
so it's not positions of atoms, but it's ordering, uh,
orderly behavior, uh, that certain states of matter,
uh, will arrange themselves into spontaneously. If you do them, if you,
if you treat them gently and let them do what they want to do, but in.
Repeat in that same way, indefinitely, that's.
The crystal inform. You can also have, uh, uh,
time liquids or you can have all kinds of other states of matter.
You don't have space time crystals where the pattern only repeats if,
uh, with each step of time, you also move at a certain,
a certain direction and space. And so, so, yeah, so,
but it's op it's basically it's states of matter that,
uh, oh, base that display structure in time spontaneously.
So here's, here's the difference when it happens in into time? Uh,
it sure looks a lot like it's motion and if it repeats indefinitely,
it sure looks a lot like perpetual motion. Yeah. Like, uh,
looks like free lunch <laugh> and I,
I was told that there's no such thing as free lunch. Does,
does this violate laws of thermodynamics? Uh.
No. No,
but it requires a critical examination of the laws of thermodynamics. I mean,
let me,
let me say on background that the laws of thermodynamics are not the
not fundamental laws of physics. There are things we prove
under certain circumstances emerge from the fundamental laws of physics, right?
They're not, we don't PO them separately.
They're meant to be deduced and they can be deduced under limited circumstances,
but not necessarily universally.
And we've found finding some of subtleties and sort of accept edge cases,
uh, where they don't apply in a straightforward way. Uh,
and this is one, uh,
so time crystals do obey do have this structure in time,
but it's not a free lunch because although in a sense, things are moving,
uh, they're they're already doing what they want to do. They're in their living.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>. So if, if you want to extract energy from it,
you're gonna be foiled because there's no spare energy there, you, uh,
uh, it it's or so you, you can add energy to it and kind of disturb it, but,
but, uh,
you can't and extract energy from this motion because it's gonna,
it wants to do that's the lowest energy configuration that there is. So you,
you can't get further energy out of it. So in theory.
I guess, perpetual motion, uh,
you would be able to extract energy from it. Yes. If,
if such a thing was to be created, you can then mill a good.
For energy. What's what's usually meant in the literature.
Perpetual motion is
a kind of macroscopic motion that you could extract energy from. And,
and somehow it would crank back up, right? That's that's not the case here.
If you wanna extract energy, you, uh, this motion is,
is not something you can extract energy from.
If you intervene in the behavior, you can, uh, change it,
but only by injecting energy, not, not by taking away energy.